# MATLAB and Python Post-DLC tracking analysis (Scholz et al 2025)

Instructions for MATLAB Implementation
1. Generate directories and clone MATLAB analysis package to C:/toolbox/dlc_analysis
2. In dlc_analysis, demo_script.m provides an example script to analyse h5 files generated by DeepLabCut as described in (INSERT LINK TO PAPER'S GITHUB PAGE)
3. There are several parameters that the user needs to define:

   - body_center_parts: tracked body part/s is selected to determine where the center is. Selection of more than 1 part results in averaged location.
   - head_parts.origin & heading_parts.point: tracked body part/s is selected to determine heading direction.
   - thr: selection of threshold to reject poor tracking confidence
   - frame_rate: video acquisation frame-rate to convert calculations into seconds
   - smooth_val: value for smoothing.
   - pxl_resolution: mm/pixel. This allows conversion of pixel to mm. Especially useful for speed/accerlation plots.
   - tolerance: Allows user to remove noisy signals

4. Parameters for bout detection are very user/video dependent. We advise users to use this with caution! Bout detection is determined by peak-detection and parameters here determine the sensitivity. We advise users to check how well bout detection works on their own dataset by visually checking against speed and tail angle plots.
5. The core functions are: get_body_center, get_point_metrics, get_vector_metrics, get_bout_metrics. Each functions has individual help comments if users need additional explainations.
6. Looking at demo_script.m, you will find basic plots for a 6s recording of a 6dpf fish.

Instruction for PYTHON Implementation
